This is a recent commit for the new articles (#6)
apitoolkit/apitoolkit-landing: content/blog/API-DOCUMENTATION-TOP-TOOLS-AND-USING-THEM-RIGHT/index.md

---
title: "API DOCUMENTATION - TOP TOOLS AND USING THEM RIGHT"

> date: 2022-05-24T08:05:56+02:00

Reviewer: Why are you using a date in may? This would hurt our SEO efforts if you're backdating articles

<img width="1182" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6564482/193804243-fdd14dca-9f65-467c-8a05-8e989d4be957.png">

Author: The last time we spoke about the dates, you said I shouldn't alter the dates. But it will be resolved

---
![api-documentation-tools](./istockphoto-1222013766-612x612.jpg)

> API documentation is a technical content that is both a machine and human readable file that explains the how-tos of an API and what a particular API can perform. It is a precise reference source that thoroughly explains the API procedures and can also serve as a manual and instructional tool that aids users in learning how to utilize it. 

Reviewer: You're conflating "API", and "API docs" 
Apis are for machines, and maybe humans. API docs are for the humans who want to use the API

## Advantages of Documentation 
Devoting the right amount of time and resources to producing high-quality API documentation, as an API company is very important and here are the reasons why:
- Reduced Onboarding Time: With this both external and internal users can have quick access to the data/information they require to begin using and profiting from your API. 
- Reduced Dependence on Support: Effective documentation frees up your API experts to focus on other tasks while assisting other users in solving their problems. It doesn't matter if your API is only utilized internally or by tens of thousands of users, this still holds. 
- Encouraging Non-developers: Your API documentation enhances discussions about how your APIs and data may be used to achieve your business goals by expanding the expertise of non-coding colleagues. 

> - Speed: A detailed and easy-to-use API documentation speeds up the integration of your API by making it more accessible to new users and even returning users. 

Reviewer: How is this different from `Reduced Onboarding Time`?

- Increased User Satisfaction: Your company will benefit from having well-written and comprehensive API documentation because you will get satisfied clients who will be willing to send in referrals. 

> ## Basis of a good documentation 

Reviewer: Please add links from all the examples to their websites.

> These pieces of documentation are so effective for the following reasons: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Good documentation is effective for the following reasons: 
```

- Make your API documentation simple and straight forward for developers to be able to locate solutions to occurent issues so that  they can swiftly obtain what they require. Don’t give out information that isn't necessary or difficult to comprehend the API and how it operates. Most time users don’t have the patience to read through anything especially when there is an issue, they want usable solutions/documentation, not unnecessary information. 
- Make no assumptions about the reader's prior knowledge. Be direct yet detailed. 
- Be well organized. Give information in a well-structured, consistent, and simple manner to enable users to read fluently. For users trying to learn something new or find a solution to a problem, this lowers friction. 

## Basic API Documentation Tools

> There are various API documentation tool that are widely available. Here is our selection of the essentials 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various widely available API documentation tools. These are a few:
```

> - Postman

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Postman
```

> ![postman](./draft%20-%20API%20Documentation%20Tool.png)

Reviewer: A picture showing postman documentation tool is better than a picture of their landing page.

Postman's online API documentation tool can help you create and maintain machine-readable API documentation. Postman automatically pulls your sample requests, headers, code snippets, and more to populate your documentation with dynamic examples and machine-readable instructions. It also automatically updates your documentation when you make changes to your collection. What’s unique about Postman is its commenting feature. Using this functionality, you can provide comments and code reviews to share feedback and notify your teammates of any changes or errors in real-time. 

> - Dropbox API Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dropbox API Reference
```

![Dropbox](./Dropbox-API.jpg)

> This dropbox API Reference ia an outstanding example of top-notch reference material. In contrast to the other competitors on this list, Dropbox asks you to select your preferred programming language before giving you documentation specifically for that language. The simplicity of Dropbox's strategy is why we like it. It provides you with particular implementation guidance for your selected language rather than inundating you with material that fills the entire page. The lesson is to consider different dev backgrounds. Quickstart instructions, endpoint definitions, code snippets, and sample replies are included in the authentication guide. It is optimized for new users and smaller enterprises with a more streamlined and uncomplicated document that allows you to create rich, interactive websites for the APIs.

Reviewer: The title of the article is `Basic API Documentation Tools`. 
How is dropbox an API documentation tool? What you're describing basically says Dropbox is a good example of an API documentation, not that it's an API documentation tool.

  
- SwaggerHub

> ![Swaggerhub](./Screenshot%20(52).png)

Reviewer: Please change this screenshot file name to something more representative.

> This is ideal for teams and enterprises, SwaggerHub is an online API documentation tool designed to simplify and accelerate API documentation. Using the API editor, you can more easily achieve compliance with OpenAPI Specifications (OAS), previously known as Swagger. They offer features like smart error feedback and syntax auto-completion with an embedded API design rules that reinforce standards in real-time. Another feature is the real-time commenting and issue tracking making it great to comment as a developer.

Reviewer: You're saying a lot, but not saying anything at the same time. As a reader, I don't still understand what SwaggerHub is and when i'm supposed to use it or how i'm supposed to use it.

- GitHub API Documentation
![Github](./github.png)

> The REST API documentation for GitHub is also highly lauded by developers. Github's documentation doesn't attempt to cram too much information onto a single page, similar to Dropbox. The straightforward menu in the developers top-right section includes connections to libraries, manuals, and reference materials. From there, developers are directed by well-organized articles that resemble blog posts. 

Reviewer: The title of the article is `Basic API Documentation Tools`.
How is github an API documentation tool? You're describing an example of good documentation, not a tool.

As you may have noticed, GitHub's API documentation features a small widget on each page that displays the current state of the API. It's a little detailed, but as we previously discussed, little adjustments like these can help. One look shows developers whether a problem with their implementation may or may not be caused by the server. The takeaway is to conserve developer time whenever possible. 

> - ReadMe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ReadMe
```

![Readme](./Readme.png)
This is an interactive used by developers for good API documentation. With ReadMe you can auto-generate code samples, alter the material in the ReadMe editor, merge a recommended edit, respond to inquiries in the help forum, and more in this hub. 

One of ReadMe's main benefits is that it tracks metrics like page visits, API calls, API errors, and queries to various endpoints among others so you can see how your API and API documentation are used over time. Your team can determine where to concentrate its efforts on improving by using these useful insights.

> -APIDOC

Reviewer: I don't understand what this is from your explanation. Is it a tool? Is it a desktop app? is it an example? WHen and why would I use it?

![apidoc](./apidoc.jpg)
This is an open-source REST API documentation that generates documentation from API descriptions in your source code automatically. Almost any programming language can be used with it (as long as it allows block documentation). Developers can see what has changed between versions since apiDoc enables you to assign a version number to an API. This makes it perfect for managing updates to your API in a transparent manner, or for API versioning.

> Any of the above tools  can assist you in producing interactive, user-friendly, and simple to maintain online API documentation. When assessing tools, be sure to consider both your must-haves and nice-to-haves in order to get the one that best suits your demands and budget.

Reviewer: Why is apitoolkit not listed here, when it's a tool for api documentation?
